Financial Contracts

My friend Jerry lives in a small town, the same town in which he was born and
raised. Because Jerry's parents are no longer alive and many of his friends have
left, he is seriously thinking of packing up and moving to a larger city. However,
Jerry recently heard that there is a plan to build a major highway that will pass
very close to his hometown. Because the highway is likely to bring new life to
the town,Jerry is reconsidering his decision to move away. It has also occurred
to Jerry that the highway may bring new business opportunities.
      For many years, Jerry's family was in the restaurant business, and Jerry
is thinking of building a restaurant at the main intersection leading from the
highway into town. If Jerry does decide to build the restaurant, he will need to
acquire land along the highway. Fortunately, Jerry has located a plot of land,
currently owned by Farmer Smith, that is ideally suited for the restaurant. Because
the land does not seem to be in use, Jerry is hoping that Farmer Smith might
be willing to sell it.
      If Farmer Smith is indeed willing to sell, how can Jerry acquire the land
on which to build his restaurant? First, Jerry must find out how much Farmer
Smith wants for the land. Let's say $100,000. If Jerry thinks that the price is
reasonable, he can agree to pay this amount and, in return, take ownership of
the land. In this case, Jerry and Farmer Smith will have entered into a spot or
cash transaction.
      In a cash transaction, both parties agree on terms, followed immediately
by an exchange of money for goods. The trading of stock on an exchange is
usually considered to be a cash transaction: the buyer and seller agree on the
price, the buyer pays the seller, and the seller delivers the stock. The actions
essentially take place simultaneously. (Admittedly, on most stock exchanges,
there is a settlement period between the time the price is agreed on and the
time the stock is actually delivered and payment is made. However, the settle­
ment period is relatively short, so for practical purposes most traders consider
this a cash transaction.)
      However, it has also occurred to Jerry that it will probably take several
years to build the highway. Because Jerry wants the opening of his restaurant
