      will cause the option's value to rise by 0.5 x 0.10 — 0.05. Consequently, the option
      will only decline by 0.15, a decline of 0.20 due to a change in the underlying price
      combined with an increase of 0.05 due to the increase in implied volatility. The
      option has a skewed or adjusted delta of —15.
            The inclusion of a volatility skew in a pricing model will affect the calcu­
      lation of all option risk measures and can greatly complicate a trader's ability
      to manage risk. For many traders, it may be best to keep things simple, per­
      haps using a skew model to generate theoretical values while using a traditional
      model to calculate the delta, gamma, theta, and vega. For an active trader who
       carries large option positions, calculating accurate skewed sensitivities becomes
       much more important because the total value of the position can change very
       quickly as market conditions change. Financial engineers at professional option
       trading firms are often responsible for developing methods to accurately calcu­
       late theoretical values and risk sensitivities using a volatility skew model. But
       even the most sophisticated model is unlikely to generate values that exactly
       model option prices under all market conditions. A model can help, but it will
       always have limitations.
                combining the volatility term structure across expiration dates with the
       volatility skew across exercise prices, we can form a volatility surface. While some­
       times difficult to visualize, a volatility surface may enable a trader to more easily see
       the basic volatility characteristics of an option market. The more exercise prices
       and expiration dates that are available, the more accurate will be the volatility sur­
       face. Sample volatility surfaces for the FTSE 100 options and wheat options are
       shown in Figures 24-12 and 24-13. At the time, the FTSE 100 Index was trading
       at 5,966, and the front-month wheat futures contract was trading at 647.

       Figure 24-12 FTSE 100 volatility surface. March 16. 2012.




                                                                                                  40%




                                                                                                  25%


                                                                                                  20%




                   Exercise price                                           9 11
                                                                   3   5   Months to expiration




500   OPTION VOLATILITY AND PRICING
